---
title: Bjorn Otto Sverdrup
date: 2017-10-24 19:58:00 Z
title and organization: "Senior Vice President, Corporate Sustainability, Statoil"
photo: "/uploads/Sverdrup_BjornOtto.jpg"
---
Bjørn Otto Sverdrup is Statoil’s Senior Vice President for Sustainability and member of the management committee in the Global Strategy and Business Development business area. Sverdrup has extensive leadership experience in Statoil. Since 2007 he has been a Vice President and member of several of Statoil’s top Management Committees, including Exploration and Development Norway, Development and Production International and most recently for the company’s North American operations in Houston, Texas. Following the 2011 terrorist attacks in Norway, Sverdrup served as chief of staff for the government-appointed commission investigating the attacks. Sverdrup also served at The Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise (NHO) as advisor and National expert to the EU Commission on corporate social responsibility. As member of the management committee of Hydro’s oil and gas division he was part of the integration planning committee for the merger between Statoil and Hydro Oil and Energy in 2007. He is a frequent speaker at key industry event such as CERA, WFES and SPE and has been a guest lecturer at Imperial College, Columbia University and Harvard Business School. Sverdrup is a deputy on the Board of Directors at Norway’s largest university, NTNU and a member of the advisory board at the master program of the Grantham Institute of the Imperial College in London. Sverdrup is a political scientist and former research fellow from the University of Oslo. He is the father of three children.
