---
title: Francesco Starace
date: 2017-10-24 18:54:00 Z
title and organization: 'CEO, Enel'
photo: "/uploads/Starace_Francesco.jpg"
---
Francesco Starace is Chief Executive Officer and General Manager of Enel S.p.A. since May 2014. Mr. Starace joined the Enel Group in 2000, holding several top executive positions including Head of Business Power (from July 2002 to October 2005) and Managing Director of the Market Division (from November 2005 to September 2008). From 2008 to 2014, he has been Chief Executive Officer and General Manager of Enel Green Power, the Group's renewable power generation subsidiary and a leading player in the global renewables industry. In November 2010, Mr. Starace led the Initial Public Offering (IPO) of the company, listing it on the Milan and Madrid stock exchanges with a market capitalization of €8 billion. Since June 2014, he is a member of the Advisory Board of the United Nations’ Sustainable Energy 4 All initiative. In May 2015, he joined the Board of Directors of the United Nations’ Global Compact. In January 2016, he was designated co-chair of the World Economic Forum's Energy Utilities and Energy Technologies Community and, in October of the same year, he was appointed co-chair of the B20 Climate & Resource Efficiency Task Force. In June 2017, he was elected President of the European electricity industry union Eurelectric. He graduated in Nuclear Engineering from the Polytechnic University of Milan. He is married and has two sons, he is a keen cyclist, a supporter of A.S. Roma football club and has a passion for poetry.
