---
title: Grace Wu
date: 2017-10-24 18:54:00 Z
title and organization: 'PhD Candidate, Energy and Resources Group, U.C. Berkeley and Researcher, Berkeley Lab'
photo: "/uploads/Wu_Grace.jpg"
---
Grace is an environmental scientist studying land use for energy, climate, and conservation needs. In geographies as diverse as California, India, and South Africa, energy systems are on the cusp or in the midst of major transitions from conventional to renewable technologies. By examining the extent and the location of trade-offs between different land use drivers, Grace is identifying areas that yield climate and conservation win-win solutions. Grace co-founded the Multi-criteria Analysis for Planning Renewable Energy (MapRE) initiative, through a collaboration between Berkeley Lab and the International Renewable Energy Agency. MapRE seeks to enable and improve the planning of low-carbon, cost-effective, socially and environmentally responsible energy systems. Through collaboration with The Nature Conservancy, Grace developed a spatial model to understand land-use constraints associated with renewable energy systems planning in California, which led to regulatory improvements that simultaneously advance conservation and climate goals. Grace continues to advise the California Energy Program at The Nature Conservancy in assessing land use impacts of ambitious renewable energy targets. She is also a technical adviser to the Energy Sector Management Assistance Program at the World Bank, which is currently using the MapRE tool for planning solar and wind projects in Vietnam, Afghanistan, and India. Previously, Grace worked at the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) leading a project to understand climate change impacts on an endangered butterfly in the Great Lakes region. She holds a BA in Biology from Pomona College, MPhil in Evolutionary Biology from University of Cambridge, and an MS in Energy and Resources from UC Berkeley.
