---
title: Lenka Kollar
date: 2017-10-24 19:58:00 Z
title and organization: "Director, NuScale Power"
photo: "/uploads/Kollar_Lenka.jpg"
---
Lenka Kollar is the Director of Business Strategy at NuScale Power where she is working to bring NuScale’s small modular reactor to market through business plan development and clean energy outreach. She has been invited to speak on energy innovation and the potential of small modular reactors to provide electricity and clean water in a variety of different forums, such as the CleanTech Forum in San Francisco and the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP22) in Morocco. Previously, Ms. Kollar was an Associate Communication Officer at the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) where she handled external and internal communication for the Department of Nuclear Energy. Prior to that, she consulted with public and private sector organizations on nuclear energy policy, public communications, and marketing strategy, along with writing an informational nuclear energy blog called Nuclear Undone. Ms. Kollar also served as a technical associate in non-proliferation policy at the U.S. National Nuclear Security Administration and at Argonne National Laboratory. Ms. Kollar obtained her Bachelor of Science in 2009 and Master of Science in 2012 in Nuclear Engineering from Purdue University and Master of Business Administration (MBA) from INSEAD in France, Singapore and the United Arab Emirates in 2015. She has been extensively involved with the American Nuclear Society for several years, serving in various committee and executive positions focusing on nonproliferation and public outreach
