---
title: Noah Kaufman
date: 2017-10-24 19:58:00 Z
title and organization: "Economist, WRI"
photo: "/uploads/Kaufman_Noah.jpg"
---
Noah is an economist for WRI’s Global Climate Program and the New Climate Economy (NCE) Initiative. The focuses of his work are carbon pricing and other cost-effective climate policies, the economic impacts of climate policies and climate change, and long-term decarbonization strategies. In 2016, Noah served as the Deputy Associate Director of Energy & Climate Change at the White House Council on Environmental Quality. At the White House, Noah was the day-to-day manager of the inter-agency group effort to produce the United States Mid-Century Strategy for Deep Decarbonization. Previously, Noah was a Senior Consultant at the Environment Practice of NERA Economic Consulting. He specialized on projects related to the economics of environmental and energy policies, as well as evaluating the impacts to the economy and to the electricity grid of infrastructure investments and energy policies. Noah has published peer-reviewed journal articles on the topics of the social cost of carbon dioxide emissions, the role of risk aversion in environmental policy evaluations, and the design of incentives to support green consumer products and energy-efficiency programs run by electric and gas utilities. Noah received his BS in economics, cum laude, from Duke University, and his PhD and MS in economics, with a concentration on energy and environmental economics, from the University of Texas at Austin, where his dissertation examined optimal policy responses to climate change.
