_event/lesc-gcas.markdown, before:

---
title: LESC at GCAS 2018
date: 2018-06-26 14:20:00 Z
position: 0
is-featured: true
theme: The Land-Energy Nexus In Climate Change Mitigation
location-text: University of San Francisco
event-date-text: September 11, 2018
registration-url: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/low-emissions-solutions-conference-lesc-at-the-global-climate-action-summit-registration-45493626662
blurb: The 2018 Global Climate Action Summit will bring together leaders from state
  and local governments and business from around the world. In an official GCAS affiliate
  side-event, LESC will host panels featuring distinguished speakers who will highlight
  the current state of technological solutions in each field and identify research,
  funding, and policy gaps.
schedule-text: "![San Francisco](/uploads/lesc-gsca-sanfran-collage_144_bg.jpg)\n\n#
  Tuesday September 11, 2018\n\n## Registration & Breakfast  \n8:30\n\n---\n\n## Welcome
  & Conference Objectives\n9:00\n\n---\n\n## Opening Keynote\n9:20\n\n---\n\n## Plenary
  Panel 1: The Land-Energy Nexus in Climate Change Mitigation\n9:30\n\n---\n\n## Plenary
  Panel 2: Counting on the Land: The role of Land Sinks, Biomass, and BECCS\n10:30\n\n---\n\n##
  Networking Break\n11:45\n\n---\n\n## Plenary Panel 3: Building Integrated Land-Energy
  Pathways: Reducing Uncertainty and Enhancing Benefits\n12:00\n\n---\n\n## Lunch
  Served\n13:15\n\n---\n\n## Parallel Session I\n14:15\n\nLand Use:  \n__Implementing
  Natural Climate Solutions and Challenges__\n\nEnergy:  \n__From Microgrids to Global
  Interconnection__  \n\n---\n\n## Networking Break\n15:25\n\n---\n\n## Parallel Session
  II\n15:40\n\nLand Use:  \n__Competing Priorities, Necessary Tradeoffs: Navigating
  a Multi-goal Agenda__\n\nEnergy:  \n__Boundary Conditions: The Challenges for Sub-nationals
  in Leading the Low Carbon Transition__\n\n---\n\n## Networking Break\n16:50\n\n---\n\n##
  Parallel Session III\n17:05\n\nLand Use:  \n__Technology-led Solutions for Implementing
  Climate Smart Agriculture__\n\nEnergy:  \n__Innovation Towards a Low-Emissions Transport
  System__\n\n---\n\n## Evening Cocktail Reception\n18:15"
---

The **2018 Global Climate Action Summit** will bring together leaders from state and local governments and business from around the world. In an official GCAS affiliate side-event, LESC will host panels featuring distinguished speakers who will highlight the current state of technological solutions in each field and identify research, funding, and policy gaps. The agenda will include facilitated networking sessions to promote multi-stakeholder collaboration.

This year’s LESC features distinguished panelists from government, academia, business, and civil society who will address the themes of energy and land use. It will begin with a plenary session on **The Land-Energy Nexus In Climate Change Mitigation**, a conversation about the role of energy in low-carbon land-use scenarios and land use in low-carbon energy scenarios. The plenary aims to challenge assumptions that could lead to unworkable approaches to decarbonization, and develop frameworks for land-energy integration that are conceptually sound and implementable on the ground.

The plenary will be followed by concurrent sessions on **Decarbonizing Energy and Land Use** that will dig deeper into these topics and the latest breakthroughs and challenges in technology and policy. The agenda will also include opportunities for poster sessions, information stations, and facilitated networking to promote collaboration.

Commit message:

lesc-gcas event content updates

_event/lesc-gcas.markdown, after:

---
title: LESC at GCAS 2018
date: 2018-06-26 14:20:00 Z
position: 0
is-featured: true
theme: The Land-Energy Nexus In Climate Change Mitigation
location-text: University of San Francisco
event-date-text: September 11, 2018
registration-url: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/low-emissions-solutions-conference-lesc-at-the-global-climate-action-summit-registration-45493626662
blurb: The 2018 Global Climate Action Summit will bring together leaders from state
  and local governments and business from around the world. In an official GCAS affiliate
  side-event, LESC will host panels featuring distinguished speakers who will highlight
  the current state of technological solutions in each field and identify research,
  funding, and policy gaps.
schedule-text: "![San Francisco](/uploads/lesc-gsca-sanfran-collage_144_bg.jpg)\n\n#
  Tuesday September 11, 2018\n\n## Registration & Breakfast  \n8:30\n\n---\n\n## Welcome
  & Conference Objectives\n9:00\n\n---\n\n## Opening Keynote\n9:20\n\n---\n\n## Plenary
  Panel 1: The Land-Energy Nexus in Climate Change Mitigation\n9:30\n\n---\n\n## Plenary
  Panel 2: Counting on the Land: The role of Land Sinks, Biomass, and BECCS\n10:30\n\n---\n\n##
  Networking Break\n11:45\n\n---\n\n## Plenary Panel 3: Building Integrated Land-Energy
  Pathways: Reducing Uncertainty and Enhancing Benefits\n12:00\n\n---\n\n## Lunch
  Served\n13:15\n\n---\n\n## Parallel Session I\n14:15\n\nLand Use:  \n__Implementing
  Natural Climate Solutions and Challenges__\n\nEnergy:  \n__From Microgrids to Global
  Interconnection__  \n\n---\n\n## Networking Break\n15:25\n\n---\n\n## Parallel Session
  II\n15:40\n\nLand Use:  \n__Competing Priorities, Necessary Tradeoffs: Navigating
  a Multi-goal Agenda__\n\nEnergy:  \n__Boundary Conditions: The Challenges for Sub-nationals
  in Leading the Low Carbon Transition__\n\n---\n\n## Networking Break\n16:50\n\n---\n\n##
  Parallel Session III\n17:05\n\nLand Use:  \n__Technology-led Solutions for Implementing
  Climate Smart Agriculture__\n\nEnergy:  \n__Innovation Towards a Low-Emissions Transport
  System__\n\n---\n\n## Evening Cocktail Reception\n18:15"
---
The **Land-Energy Nexus in Climate Change Mitigation** event is a special edition of the Low-Emissions Solutions Conference taking place alongside the Global Climate Action Summit in partnership the the University of California Berkeley Lab and the University of San Francisco in addition to other local partners. The event is brought to you with support from Enel.

The **2018 Global Climate Action Summit** will bring together leaders from state and local governments and business from around the world. In an official GCAS affiliate side-event, LESC will host panels featuring distinguished speakers who will highlight the current state of technological solutions in each field and identify research, funding, and policy gaps. The agenda will include facilitated networking sessions to promote multi-stakeholder collaboration.

This year’s LESC features distinguished panelists from government, academia, business, and civil society who will address the themes of energy and land use. It will begin with a plenary session on **The Land-Energy Nexus In Climate Change Mitigation**, a conversation about the role of energy in low-carbon land-use scenarios and land use in low-carbon energy scenarios. The plenary aims to challenge assumptions that could lead to unworkable approaches to decarbonization, and develop frameworks for land-energy integration that are conceptually sound and implementable on the ground.

The plenary will be followed by concurrent sessions on **Decarbonizing Energy and Land Use** that will dig deeper into these topics and the latest breakthroughs and challenges in technology and policy. The agenda will also include opportunities for poster sessions, information stations, and facilitated networking to promote collaboration.
