_event/lesc-cop23.markdown, before:

---
title: LESC at COP23
date: 2017-10-19 19:39:00 Z
hashtag: lesc23
is-featured: true
logo-file: "/uploads/LESC_COP23_logo.png"
logo-vector-file: "/uploads/LESC_COP23_logo.svg"
theme: Implementation at Scale
permalink: /event/lesc-at-cop23
event-date-text: November 13, 2017
location-text: GOP Theatre, Karl-Carstens-Straße 1, 53113 Bonn, Germany, COP23
registration-url: https://fs8.formsite.com/iclei12/form164/index.html
schedule-text: |-

  # Agenda

  ## Arrival of guests and reception  
  ### 17:30 - 18:30

  ## Welcome keynote and setting the scene  
  ### 18:30 - 18:50

  - Leena Wokeck, CSR Asia (Moderator)
  - Peter Bakker, President & CEO, WBCSD
  - Ashok Sridharan, Mayor, Bonn, Germany; ICLEI First Vice President

  ## Ice-breaker Dialogue-1: City and business leaders on innovation
  18:50 - 19:30

  ## Table talks among partners with dinner served
  19:30 – 20:10

  ## City stories on innovation
  20:10 – 20:20

  - Johanna Partin, Carbon Neutral Cities Alliance (CNCA)

  ## Warm-up Dialogue-2: City and business leaders on science-based policy and actions
  20:20 – 21:00

  ## Table talks among partners with desserts served
  21:00 – 21:20

  ## Corporate leadership on carbon pricing - a debrief of today's high level discussions
  21:20 – 21:30

  - Feike Sijbesma, CEO, Royal DSM

  ## Remarks by COP23 presidency and high level climate champions: The way towards and beyond 2018 Facilitative Dialogue
  21:30 – 21:40

  ## Closing Remarks
  21:40 – 21:50

  ---

  Note that this event has been designed in a unique way to allow all guests to contribute in dialogue
---
# Introduction and Background

Under the Paris Agreement, every country is responsible for developing both a near-term nationally determined contribution (NDC) and a long-term Low-Emission Development Strategy (LEDS) with the engagement of governments at all levels and among all relevant actors. To support the preparation of NDCs and LEDS that embody state-of-the-art technical understanding, the **Low-Emissions Solutions Conference (LESC)** was launched successfully at COP22 in Marrakech in 2016.  In September 2017, the LESC held a sister event during Climate Week in New York focused on deep decarbonization pathways. During the event, practitioners and world-renowned experts presented the latest developments in national strategic planning, demand-side solutions and battery storage, renewable energy penetration, and the status of new alternative energy options that may be the key to transitioning to a low-emission future. While this event had a distinct academic flavor, it remained true to the original concept in bringing cities, academia, business and policy-makers together for an in-depth discussion on technical solutions and their applications.

LESC now returns to COP, creating a space for in-depth dialogue with policy-makers. We recognize the scale of the challenge in implementing ambitious NDCs, but also the need to take action at the city, local, and project level. As such, the theme of this LESC is **“Implementation at Scale”.** We will bring together global leaders who are taking bold action.  Spotlight presentations will facilitate rich dialogue on what is still needed and how public-private partnerships can support the common objectives between nations, cities, business, and academia. The outcomes of this event will be made available to the Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action High Level Roundtable on Innovation on 14 November.

Commit message:

Added related media field to events

_event/lesc-cop23.markdown, after:

---
title: LESC at COP23
date: 2017-10-19 19:39:00 Z
hashtag: lesc23
is-featured: true
logo-file: "/uploads/LESC_COP23_logo.png"
logo-vector-file: "/uploads/LESC_COP23_logo.svg"
theme: Implementation at Scale
permalink: /event/lesc-at-cop23
event-date-text: November 13, 2017
location-text: GOP Theatre, Karl-Carstens-Straße 1, 53113 Bonn, Germany, COP23
registration-url: https://fs8.formsite.com/iclei12/form164/index.html
schedule-text: |-

  # Agenda

  ## Arrival of guests and reception  
  ### 17:30 - 18:30

  ## Welcome keynote and setting the scene  
  ### 18:30 - 18:50

  - Leena Wokeck, CSR Asia (Moderator)
  - Peter Bakker, President & CEO, WBCSD
  - Ashok Sridharan, Mayor, Bonn, Germany; ICLEI First Vice President

  ## Ice-breaker Dialogue-1: City and business leaders on innovation
  18:50 - 19:30

  ## Table talks among partners with dinner served
  19:30 – 20:10

  ## City stories on innovation
  20:10 – 20:20

  - Johanna Partin, Carbon Neutral Cities Alliance (CNCA)

  ## Warm-up Dialogue-2: City and business leaders on science-based policy and actions
  20:20 – 21:00

  ## Table talks among partners with desserts served
  21:00 – 21:20

  ## Corporate leadership on carbon pricing - a debrief of today's high level discussions
  21:20 – 21:30

  - Feike Sijbesma, CEO, Royal DSM

  ## Remarks by COP23 presidency and high level climate champions: The way towards and beyond 2018 Facilitative Dialogue
  21:30 – 21:40

  ## Closing Remarks
  21:40 – 21:50

  ---

  Note that this event has been designed in a unique way to allow all guests to contribute in dialogue
related-media:
  - description: |-
      ### Location
      The event will take place at the GOP Varieté Theatre in Bonn. This is located at the centre of the Bula Zone. The street address is Karl-Carstens-Straße 1, 53113 Bonn.
    image: "/uploads/lesc_map_overview.png"
  - description: |-
      ### Venue Access
      Entrance will only be permitted to confirmed participants with a valid ticket issued by LESC. Access to the venue will be assured for ticket holders. No Bula Zone accreditation will be necessary.
    image: "/uploads/lesc_map_bula_zone.png"
---
# Introduction and Background

Under the Paris Agreement, every country is responsible for developing both a near-term nationally determined contribution (NDC) and a long-term Low-Emission Development Strategy (LEDS) with the engagement of governments at all levels and among all relevant actors. To support the preparation of NDCs and LEDS that embody state-of-the-art technical understanding, the **Low-Emissions Solutions Conference (LESC)** was launched successfully at COP22 in Marrakech in 2016.  In September 2017, the LESC held a sister event during Climate Week in New York focused on deep decarbonization pathways. During the event, practitioners and world-renowned experts presented the latest developments in national strategic planning, demand-side solutions and battery storage, renewable energy penetration, and the status of new alternative energy options that may be the key to transitioning to a low-emission future. While this event had a distinct academic flavor, it remained true to the original concept in bringing cities, academia, business and policy-makers together for an in-depth discussion on technical solutions and their applications.

LESC now returns to COP, creating a space for in-depth dialogue with policy-makers. We recognize the scale of the challenge in implementing ambitious NDCs, but also the need to take action at the city, local, and project level. As such, the theme of this LESC is **“Implementation at Scale”.** We will bring together global leaders who are taking bold action.  Spotlight presentations will facilitate rich dialogue on what is still needed and how public-private partnerships can support the common objectives between nations, cities, business, and academia. The outcomes of this event will be made available to the Marrakech Partnership for Global Climate Action High Level Roundtable on Innovation on 14 November.
